MY name is Robinson Crusoe. I was born in the old city of York, 
where there is a broad river, with ships coming and going.
When I was a little boy, I spent much of my time looking at the river.
How pleasant was the quiet stream, flowing, always flowing, toward 
the far-away sea! I liked to watch the ships as they came in with their white 
sails spread to the wind.
I liked to think of the strange lands which they must have visited, and 
of the many wonderful things they must have passed.
I wished to be a sailor. I thought how grand it must be to sail and sail
on the wide blue sea, with the sky above and the waves beneath. Nothing 
could be pleasanter.
My father wanted me to learn a trade. But I could not bear the thought 
of it. I could not bear the thought of working every day in a dusty shop.
I did not wish to stay in York all my life. I wanted to see the world. I 
would be a sailor and nothing else.
My mother was very sad when I told her.
A sailor's life, she said, was a hard life. There were many storms at 
sea, and ships were often wrecked.Ìóëüòèÿçûêîâîé ïðîåêò Èëüè Ôðàíêà www.franklang.ru 5
She told me, too, that there were great fishes in the sea, and that they 
would eat me up if I fell into the water.
Then she gave me a cake, and kissed me. "How much safer it is to be 
at home!" she said.
But I would not listen to her. My mind was made up, and a sailor I 
would be.
When I was eighteen years old, I left my pleasant home and went to 
sea
I SOON found that my mother's words were true. A sailor's life is 
indeed a hard life. There was no time for play on board of our ship. Even in 
the fairest weather there was much work to be done.
On the very first night the wind began to blow. The waves rolled high. 
The ship was tossed this way and that. Never had I seen such a storm.
All night long the wind blew. I was so badly frightened that I did not 
know what to do. I thought the ship would surely go to the bottom.
Then I remembered my pleasant home and the words of my kind 
mother.
"If I live to reach dry land," I said to myself, "I will give up this 
thought of being a sailor. I will go home and stay with my father and mother. 
I will never set my foot in another ship."
Day came. The storm was worse than before. I felt sure that we were 
lost. But toward evening the sky began to clear. The wind died away. The 
waves went down. The storm was over.
The next morning the sun rose bright and warm upon a smooth sea. It 
was a beautiful sight.
As I stood looking out over the wide water, the first mate came up. He 
was a kind man, and always friendly to me.
"Well, Bob," he said, "how do you like it? Were you frightened by 
that little gale?"
"I hope you don't call it a little gale," I said. "Indeed it was a terrible 
storm."
The mate laughed.Ìóëüòèÿçûêîâîé ïðîåêò Èëüè Ôðàíêà www.franklang.ru 10
"Do you call that a storm?" he asked. "Why, it was nothing at all. You 
are only a fresh-water sailor, Bob. Wait till we have a real storm."
And so I soon forgot my fears.
Little by little, I gave up all thoughts of going home again. "A sailor's 
life for me," I said.
My first voyage was not a long one.
I visited no new lands, for the ship went only to London. But the 
things which I saw in that great city seemed very wonderful to me.
Nothing would satisfy me but to make a long voyage. I wished to see 
the whole world.
I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York. That was my mother’s hometown, because she also was born there, in a family of Robinson’s. They were very old and gentle family of York’s faubourg ,  from whom I was called Robinson. My father, bored the name Kreutznaer, was German from Bremen. He earned his bread   by trading, and, when his case went to the mountain ,  he moved to England, York. There he met my mother and later they got married. Eventually, the surname Kreutznaer grown into the Crusoe, by the usual corruption of words in England. Therefore, everyone calls me Robinson Crusoe.

I had two elder brothers. One of them went to the army, despite of my father’s prohibitions, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk. What became of the second brother we never knew, he was missing.
From my childhood I dreamed about the adventures and pirates. I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea.
Being the third son of my family, I wasn’t high educated person. My father had given me house education and country free school that was enough to be a lawyer. 

When I grow up, my childish dreams of the sea turned into the real wish of becoming a captain, or a sailor at least. Oh, how the sea haunted my dreams that days!
Food is a very important thing in our life. We eat to support our body in good condition. Food shortage leads to exhaustion of organism together with mental problems such as depression and apathy.

However, overeating doesn’t bring benefit either. Excess weight can do even more harm than underweight. The reason of it is that a stout person mainly takes heavy and greasy food neglecting completely the rules of healthy nutrition. Overweight people can’t proud themselves on good health. In general they are prone to different kinds of diseases: from heart and vascular diseases up to chronic ones.

So, first of all we have to learn the basic rules of healthy eating. It’s very easy. Food that is rich in calories is allowed only in small quantity. So to speak, one must know when to spot. Alcohol consumption to excess is also forbidden.

Then what foodstuff should we buy when shopping? First and foremost dairy products and vegetables (as well as fruits). In addition we have to consume greens, cereals (porridges) and boiled meat, particularly chicken-meat.

Moreover, general calorie intake is not less important. For an ordinary person this number shouldn’t exceed 2000 for females and 2500 for males.

Cinema is an integral part of the social life of people. The movie combines not only stunts, special effects and scenery, but also the genuine art. Many people go to the cinemas in their free time. The movie hasn’t become less popular over the last few years, on the contrary – now it is increasing its popularity. Over recent years people turned old age and middle age have also become interested in the film industry. Although there is no doubt that the number of young people still prevails in cinemas.

Because of the fact that technical possibilities are growing every year, visits to cinemas are under threat. Nowadays you can watch any movie at home, hire any film or watch it online via the Internet. However, the cinemas are not behind the times too. 3D cinema halls are appearing and many other modern things like that.

As for me, I will never refuse to go to the movies with my friends extra time. Even if I had my own cinema, I would still never reject the proposal. First of all, due to the fact that any visit to the movies is a great chance to talk with friends and have fun.

The most attractive genres for me are comedy, horror movies and fiction. I like foreign movies with fast-moving plot. I'm not thrilled with soap operas and TV series.

