MY name is Robinson Crusoe. I was born in the old city of York, 
where there is a broad river, with ships coming and going.
When I was a little boy, I spent much of my time looking at the river.
How pleasant was the quiet stream, flowing, always flowing, toward 
the far-away sea! I liked to watch the ships as they came in with their white 
sails spread to the wind.
I liked to think of the strange lands which they must have visited, and 
of the many wonderful things they must have passed.
I wished to be a sailor. I thought how grand it must be to sail and sail
on the wide blue sea, with the sky above and the waves beneath. Nothing 
could be pleasanter.
My father wanted me to learn a trade. But I could not bear the thought 
of it. I could not bear the thought of working every day in a dusty shop.
I did not wish to stay in York all my life. I wanted to see the world. I 
would be a sailor and nothing else.
My mother was very sad when I told her.
A sailor's life, she said, was a hard life. There were many storms at 
sea, and ships were often wrecked. www.franklang.ru 5
She told me, too, that there were great fishes in the sea, and that they 
would eat me up if I fell into the water.
Then she gave me a cake, and kissed me. "How much safer it is to be 
at home!" she said.
She told me, too, that there were great fishes in the sea, and that they 
would eat me up if I fell into the water.
Then she gave me a cake, and kissed me. "How much safer it is to be 
at home!" she said.
But I would not listen to her. My mind was made up, and a sailor I 
would be.
When I was eighteen years old, I left my pleasant home and went to 
sea
I SOON found that my mother's words were true. A sailor's life is 
indeed a hard life. There was no time for play on board of our ship. Even in 
the fairest weather there was much work to be done.
On the very first night the wind began to blow. The waves rolled high. 
The ship was tossed this way and that. Never had I seen such a storm.
All night long the wind blew. I was so badly frightened that I did not 
know what to do. I thought the ship would surely go to the bottom.
Then I remembered my pleasant home and the words of my kind 
mother.
"If I live to reach dry land," I said to myself, "I will give up this 
thought of being a sailor. I will go home and stay with my father and mother. 
I will never set my foot in another ship."
Day came. The storm was worse than before. I felt sure that we were 
lost. But toward evening the sky began to clear. The wind died away. The 
waves went down. The storm was over.
The next morning the sun rose bright and warm upon a smooth sea. It 
was a beautiful sight.
As I stood looking out over the wide water, the first mate came up. He 
was a kind man, and always friendly to me.
"Well, Bob," he said, "how do you like it? Were you frightened by 
that little gale?"
"I hope you don't call it a little gale," I said. "Indeed it was a terrible 
storm."
The mate

"Do you call that a storm?" he asked. "Why, it was nothing at all. You 
are only a fresh-water sailor, Bob. Wait till we have a real storm."
And so I soon forgot my fears.
Little by little, I gave up all thoughts of going home again. "A sailor's 
life for me," I said.
My first voyage was not a long one.
I visited no new lands, for the ship went only to London. But the 
things which I saw in that great city seemed very wonderful to me.
Nothing would satisfy me but to make a long voyage. I wished to see 
the whole world.



I was born in the year 1632, in the city of York. That was my mothers hometown, because she also was born there, in a family of Robinsons. 
They were very old and gentle family of Yorks faubourg ,  from whom I was called Robinson. My father, bored the name Kreutznaer, was German from Bremen.
 He earned his bread   by trading, and, when his case went to the mountain ,  he moved to England, York. There he met my mother and later they got married. 
Eventually, the surname Kreutznaer grown into the Crusoe, by the usual corruption of words in England. Therefore, everyone calls me Robinson Crusoe.


